[Kotomi] Thank you for letting
me use the violin.
[Tomoya] And we're terribly
sorry that we kept it for
a whole week.
Well actually, this isn't
officially school property,
you see.
A student who graduated
several years ago
left it behind when
she went to college.
[Rie] The music teacher
asked me to test it
and see if it plays properly.
It's a very old
violin after all.
It may be an old violin,
and I can see that the strings
are a little worn,
and the wood does look
a little warped to me,
but I still think it's
a wonderful violin.
[Kotomi] So, please don't
throw it away.
Oh yes, that's what I intend
to tell the teacher.
What a relief!
Oh no, there's
something I forgot.
Why hello there. How do you do?
I'm Kotomi Ichinose of 3-A.
I love reading.
If you and I could be friends,
I would be so very happy.
If I'm not mistaken,
she's been introduced already,
but let's just clarify who
you are, shall we?
Oh, yes, my name
is Rie Nishina.
I'm very happy to meet
both of you.
I'll see you again.
Yes, see you around.
[Tomoya] Looks like you're
making lots of friends here.
[Kotomi] Uh-huh...
[Tomoya] Sure would be nice
if you keep meeting people
like this.
[Kotomi] Uh-huh...
Kotomi doesn't go to the
library anymore these days.
Instead,
she's attending classes.
Yeah, how about we go
take a little peek?
[girl] Say, Ichinose,
about problem three here...
[Kotomi] This is
x = cos (theta),
and when you solve it,
then the result is pie/ 9.
[girl] So, that's it!
Thank you!
Oh my goodness, Ichinose,
you're so smart!
[Kay] I just realized!
That was you performing
at the violin concert!
That was amazing!
[girl] What?
You play the violin?
You should've told us!
We'd have gone to see you.
[Kay] Well, I passed by, and
I don't know whether you could
really call that playing.
What do you mean by that, Kay?
[Kay] Almost like,
"Never mind, I'll play!"
[Kotomi] I have to say,
it's a little bit embarrassing.
[Kyou] You're too naive!
The world of comedy doesn't
tolerate anyone who is sub par!
That's why you can
see the rejects
with their silly neckties
far beyond the horizon!
So, if you flub your lines
or sound unnatural...
Do you know what will happen?
What will happen?
[Kyou] Why? Are you stupid?!
Eep!
Snap out of it!
Out of what?
Oh, just forget it!
Can't you see?!
Don't you see that everyone
will attack you with severe
backhand chops?!
And that's just how things
are in the real world!
I think retorts can
be very scary.
In any case,
even if you're reborn
a million times,
you won't make it as a comedian.
S-Sister, that's a bit too
harsh, don't you think?
I agree! I mean, if we all work
together, then I'm sure...
[Kyou] It's useless!
No matter how many
zeros you have,
they always add up to zero.
[whimpering]
You're being really mean
to those girls, you know that?
I believe this calls
for a last resort.
I'm going to have to deliver
an amazing gag!
I can only hope it's not
another moldy old joke of yours.
I just learned it on television.
[Kotomi] It's very fresh.
Okay, here I go.
This bends like this.
[snrk]
[giggling]
That's a gag?
Look, don't ask me.
And then this part comes off.
[giggling]
It is a gag!
Don't cry!
[all] Wow!
You made so much food for us.
[Kotomi] That's because I wanted
everyone to have some.
So tell me, Kotomi, what do you
do when there's no school?
Oh, I always read
all of my books.
And me, I usually just hang
around at Sunohara's place.
I just basically stay
at home too.
How hopeless!
Every one of us are
at the peak of our youth,
and all of you are doing nothing
but wasting away your time
and bodies!
So you're saying you have
a lot of things to do?
[Kyou] Not a thing!
[Tomoya] Figured as much.
But just now, I came up
with a really good plan.
Everyone, meet at 9 AM tomorrow
in front of the station!
[Kyou] We have a group date!
A really, really exciting
group activity!
It will be the perfect symbol
of our innocent and
proper youth!
[Tomoya] I'm the only guy?
Sunohara would have
come if you asked.
[Kyou] I rejected him!
One fool is plenty enough.
[Tomoya] Fool?
You talking about yourself?
[Kyou] Don't make me laugh.
I mean you, who else?
[Tomoya] Oh really?
Well, you're a pretty
big fool yourself.
[Ryou] Kyou, Kotomi's birthday's
is coming up soon.
[Kotomi] Yes, this Saturday.
[Kyou] All right! I'll think of
the perfect birthday present!
Rrr...
[Tomoya] No way!
Oh, it didn't even
budge an inch!
Hey, you there! The position
of this machine is all wrong!
No one has a chance with this!
[clerk] Not again?
Why don't you give
it up already?
[onlooker] She's gonna
try again?!
[Tomoya] This is what she meant
by the "perfect present"?
I've never seen a stuffed
animal that's that enormous.
Could it be possible that the
stuffed version is bigger than
the real animal?
[clerk] Here you go.
Thank you!
Now, this will be my 34th
consecutive attempt at success!
Okay, listen to me,
this is your last try!
You've cleaned me out.
I'm flat broke.
[Kyou] Next is your turn, Ryou!
No, no! I have no confidence.
I failed last time.
[Kyou] Then you, Nagisa!
No, ask someone else,
because I'll just be a waste
of Okazaki's hard-earned money.
[Tomoya] Well, then,
maybe you should-
[Kyou] You're so hopeless!
Isn't there anyone brave enough
to step forward and say,
"I can do it"?
Fuko-chan at your service!
[Kyou] Okay, who are you?
You seemed to be
having difficulties,
so I have rushed here with
the sole purpose of being
of service.
Please leave this to Fuko!
Hey, haven't you and
I met somewhere before?
Don't worry about it.
You don't have to remember now.
The day is sure to come
when we cross paths again.
Wait a minute,
are you sure about this?
In my neighborhood, people say
that if you put me in a
crane, there isn't a thing
I can't grab.
I am a certifiable master
at this little carnival game.
What kind of neighborhood
is that?
Hey, wait, I've had this
conversation before...
The one you're after
is that big one right there.
Understand?
This is it!
[Fuko] Here I go!
[gasp]
Ah!
My hand moved on its own,
drawn by the shape of this
precious object.
Alright, you are aware that
that is a star, not a starfish,
aren't you?
[Fuko] I wasn't able to be
of service this time,
but I would like to appear
again one day!
Well then...
Who was that girl?
And why did I say
it was a starfish?
I wonder...
And after all that,
we ended up with no present.
[Tomoya] There's still time
to try again.
Let's just put a little
more thought into it.
Oh! A vapor trail!
[Nagisa] Oh, it's so pretty.
So, what's the matter
with you, Kotomi?
[Nagisa] We're going
to go this way.
[Kotomi] Nagisa, Kyo, Ryou,
see you tomorrow.
[Nagisa] Goodnight.
[Ryou] Yes.
[Kyou] Bye-bye.
Thank you so very much, Tomoya.
If I had never met you,
I would never have felt this
much joy with wonderful people.
I didn't do anything. It was all
Nagisa, Kyou, and Fujibayashi's
idea to go out together.
They really like you.
[Tomoya] That's all.
If that's true, then
I'm a really happy girl.
Listen, Tomoya,
there's a little something
that I would like you to have.
I honestly think you would
really like it.
You can have it, because I have
already memorized everything
that's in there.
So, what? Do you want
me to read it or something?
Oh, no, you don't have
to read it.
[Kotomi] Just hang on to
it for a while for me.
[gasp]
What's the matter?
Hey, wait a minute,
isn't that the guy?
It's the bad man...
H-Hey!
[Tomoya] He's gone.
Just who is that guy anyway?
[Tomoya] And what does
he want with you?
[sobbing]
[yawn]
[Tomoya] I've been having
some bad dreams lately.
Aah!
[Kotomi] Tomoya, guess who!
Uh- Hey, wait a minute!
I can feel your boobs!
[Kotomi] Icanfeelyourboobs?
Yourboobs?
Stop talking like
a Russian gymnast!
Kotomi, you're standing
so close to me
that I can feel your boobs
are pressed against my back!
[Kotomi] Oh.
[Tomoya] Ah!
My heart is beating so fast!
Whose the weirdo who put you
up to this embarrassing trick?!
I'm afraid I did!
Well stop it, will you?
Quit making Kotomi
do such sick tricks!
She's a sweet girl.
What's wrong with it?
It's not going to make
them smaller.
[Nagisa] Kyou!
[Kyou] Huh?
What's up, Nagisa,
where's the fire?
Kyou, Ryou commutes to school
by taking the bus, doesn't she?
Every day. So, why do you
want to know so bad?
So, Ryou's always on the
bus around this time, isn't she?
What's wrong? Why do you want
to know about Ryou's method
of transport?
There's been a bus accident
over at the intersection,
and a crowd has gathered
to see the carnage!
It seems like
a serious accident.
[Nagisa] What if Ryou...
There's no way!
That's just not possible!
There's no way I wouldn't
sense it if something happened
to my own sister!
[Tomoya] Kyou!
[boy] Oh man! I've never seen
a bus turned over like that!
[man] It's a bad intersection...
There could be a lot of
casualties in this one.
[gasp]
Ryou!
[Ryou] Sis?
[Nagisa] Ryou!
Fujibayashi, you're all right?!
Are you hurt at all?
Wait a minute, Ryou, weren't
you on that bus this morning?
No, I took the next one.
The roads were really crowded,
so crowded that I was late
getting to the bus stop on time.
[Ryou] That bus
wasn't in service,
so there were no passengers.
The bus driver and the driver
of the other car are over there.
You're the one that went through
the light, you blind nitwit!
It was yellow, so I just
stepped on it a little!
It's your fault for not looking!
[policeman] Okay, okay,
that's enough. I'll hear
you out over there.
I'm just so happy that no
one was hurt in the terrible
bus accident!
[relieved sigh]
I-It's okay, sister...
I'm so sorry that I over-reacted
to the situation, Kyou.
Well, I'm just relieved that
no one was hurt at least.
[thud]
What's the matter, are you okay?
Oh, Kotomi, Ryou is okay.
[whimpering]
[Nagisa] Isn't that great?
Kotomi?
[panic]
[wailing]
[hurried footsteps]
[Nagisa] Kotomi!
[Kyou] Kotomi?
What's the matter with you?
Hey, Kotomi! Kotomi, hey!
[Kotomi] I'll be good...
I'll be a good girl...
I'll be good, I will!
[Nagisa] Kotomi!
[Ryou] Kotomi, don't cry!
[Kyou] The hospital!
An ambulance!
L-Let's take her
to the infirmary!
You mean she left?
Yes, apparently,
she left all by herself
in the middle
of the first period.
At least that's what the
physician on call said
at the infirmary.
She was suffering so much,
do you guys really think
that it's okay to leave
her alone, like that?
That's what we were worried
about, so we asked him the
same thing.
[Ryou] But he said
it's a personal matter,
and wasn't able to tell
us any more than that.
Something personal, eh?
I think we should go to
the teachers' office.
The teacher in charge should
know what happened to her.
[teacher] She came
to tell me herself...
She wasn't feeling well,
so she wanted to leave
and to go home alone.
But exactly what happened
to Ichinose?
What is this personal
matter of hers?
[teacher] Well, I can't tell
you because it's private.
You should wait until she's
ready to tell you herself.
I don't mean to pry, but do
you think it would okay for
us to visit her at home?
I think you should
let her be for now.
But I'll give you her address.
Just don't force
yourself on her.
[teacher] Here you go.
[Ryou] Kotomi thought I had
been seriously hurt and
went into shock.
This is all my fault!
If I hadn't blurted out that
there had been an accident...
[Tomoya] What happened today
was no one's fault.
Don't worry.
Are you serious? Really?
Maybe all of us haven't really
become friends yet.
[Kyou] She's not home?
Or maybe she could
just be resting in bed.
Why don't we call it a day
and come back tomorrow?
Okazaki?
[Nagisa] Okazaki, is something
the matter?
Uh, it's nothing.
[Nagisa] Okazaki!
[Tomoya] Huh?
Yeah, what is it, Nagisa?
It seems like you've been
in a daze since earlier today.
That house we saw today...
I feel there's something
familiar about it,
but I can't figure out
what it is.
[Tomoya] It's strange...
What's the matter with you?
You guys just go on home
and I'll see you tomorrow.
[Nagisa] Hey, wait up!
Hey, you! What're you doing
sneaking around like this?!
You're that boy who was with-
What kind of business
do you have with this house?
Look kid, I'm sorry.
I guess that my behavior
is bound to arouse
more than a little suspicion
around here.
[man] I rang the bell,
but no one answered.
So, I went around the back
and was looking around.
So tell me who you are exactly.
Actually, I'm just an old
work acquaintance of
Kotomi's parents.
I was one of the members
of their science research team.
And I've known Kotomi Ichinose
ever since she was little.
Wait a sec, are you saying you
came to see Kotomi's parents?
Ah, I see.
So you must not be aware of it.
[Tomoya] Wait?
[man] Well, if she hasn't
told you about it,
then I'm afraid it's not
my place to say.
It's a personal matter
I should discuss.
[Tomoya] That's what
the teacher said.
Kotomi's parents are really
important scientists, isn't
that correct?
Are they both famous for any
scientific experiments that
they were doing?
[man] The universe is not just
that which we can see.
When this world was developing
its ideal shape and form,
a microscopic dimension
was sealed away.
A hidden world exists.
The Ichinoses were the first
to ascertain that.
Or perhaps it's more
correct to say,
they were supposed to
have ascertained that.
All that sounds awfully complex
to a kid like me.
I can say, that for those
of us who assisted this
revolutionary research,
it was the honor of a lifetime.
However...
I'm afraid that's about all
I can say regarding this matter.
Let me ask you something, did
Kotomi say anything about me?
She said that you
were a bad man.
I guess to Kotomi, every one
of us are all still very bad.
Tell me, are you a classmate
of hers by any chance?
She and I are in different
classes, but we're friends
all the same.
I see.
If you have a chance, would
you please give her a message
for me?
None of us really expect
her to be forgiving,
but there's not a member of the
team that does regret what
happened back then.
What happened back...?
[man] That's all.
Now, excuse me.
[Tomoya] I've seen this
place before.
No, I've never entered
through the front door.
Somewhere else...
[Kotomi] The day before
yesterday, I saw a rabbit.
The day before yesterday,
I saw a rabbit.
Yesterday, it was a deer.
And today, it's you.
[rustle]
[crying]
You and I did meet...
[Tomoya] We met when
we were children.
The third period was
changed to study hall.
I have to say I was getting
worried about you.
So, what are you doing
loitering around here?
Just a little shopping.
Well, aren't you
Mr Moneybags, then?
Alrighty then, I guess I'll
put in a little more work.
[teacher] Let me ask you,
did you know that
there's talk of Ichinose
going abroad to study?
[Tomoya] Studying abroad?
[Tomoya] Goodnight, Kotomi.